.. _creating_structure:

Module Structure
=========================

Introduction
------------
The following files are created when you create an nstack module using:

.. code:: bash

    $ nstack init <stack>

.. _creating_structure_yaml:

nstack.yaml 
-------

The ``nstack.yaml`` file describes the configuration of your nstack module. It has several required fields that describe the project and let you control the packaging of your module.

Sample ``nstack.yaml`` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # Module name (a combination of lower case letters, numbers, and dashes)
    name: my-module

    # The language stack to use
    stack: python

    # Parent Image
    parent: com.nstack.python:24.0

    api: |
    interface Default {
        numChars : Text -> Integer
    }

    # (Optional) System-level packages needed
    packages: []

    # (Optional) Commands to run when building the module (Bash-compatible)
    commands: []

    # (Optional) Files/Dir to copy across into the module (can use regex/glob syntax)
    files: []

``name``
^^^^^^^^

*Required*

The name of the module. This is created by `nstack init` and uses the name of the current directory by default.


``stack``
^^^^^^^^^

*Required*

The base language stack to use when creating an image. Currently we support:

=======     ===========
Name        Description    
=======     ===========
python      `Python 3 <http://python.org/>`_ 
=======     ===========

``parent``
^^^^^^^^^

*Required*

The base-image your module builds from. This is typically generated by default when you create a module, but can be specified to include custom base-images which include standardised packages.  

``api``
^^^^^^^^^

*Required*

The API which defines which functions you want to expose, and their input and output schemas. Please see :ref:`Workflow Language<_workflow_langauge>` for more details. 

``files``
^^^^^^^^^

*Optional*

A list of files and directories within the project directory to include and bundle in alongside the image.

``packages``
^^^^^^^^^^^

*Optional*

A list of operating systems packages your module requires. These can be any packages installable via ``dnf`` on RHEL or Fedora.
